Attempt to rewrite record handling (#322)
tlswg/dtls13-spec: draft-ietf-tls-rfc9147bis.md

### Handling Invalid Records

Unlike TLS, DTLS can be resilient when receiving invalid records (e.g.,

> invalid formatting, length, MAC, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike TLS, DTLS can be resilient when receiving records that cannot be
processed at the record layer.
```

When receiving a record that is invalid, endpoints SHOULD discard the record
rather than generating a fatal alert. This includes only the construction of
records and the AEAD protection on the record (if any), not the contents of

> a record that is successfully decrypted.  This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An endpoint MUST discard a record, without updating handshake state, ACK state,
retransmission state, or replay windows, when the record cannot be processed at
the record layer.  This includes:
```

> * Records that contain invalid header values.  For instance, records with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Records with invalid header values.  For instance, records with
```

  invalid values for fields other than `fragment` in `DTLSPlaintext` or
  `DTLSCiphertext`; see {{dtls-record}}.

> * Records where length does not match the length of available data. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Records whose length is inconsistent with the remaining datagram contents. For
```

  instance, where the length indicates a length longer than what remains in
  a UDP datagram.

* Records with an epoch that is not currently being accepted.

> * Records where authenticated encryption protection cannot be removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Records where AEAD protection cannot be removed
```

  successfully.

> * Records that contain an invalid inner content type or unterminated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Records with an invalid inner content type or invalid; and
```

>   padding; see `DTLSInnerPlaintext` in {{dtls-record}}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  padding; see `DTLSInnerPlaintext` in {{dtls-record}}.
```

> 

Reviewer: * Records that cannot be demultiplexed as DTLS records.

Author: ```suggestion

* Records that cannot be demultiplexed as DTLS records.

```

caused by damage to handshake messages carried in unprotected records.

In general, invalid records SHOULD be silently discarded, thus preserving
the association; however, an error MAY be logged for diagnostic purposes.

Generating fatal alerts is NOT RECOMMENDED for unreliable transports, both to
increase the reliability of DTLS service and to avoid the risk of spoofing
attacks sending traffic to unrelated third parties.

If DTLS is being carried over a transport that is resistant to
forgery (e.g., SCTP with SCTP-AUTH {{RFC6083}}), then it is safer to send alerts
because an attacker will have difficulty forging a datagram that will
not be rejected by the transport layer.

Implementations which choose to generate an alert in response to an invalid
record MUST generate fatal alerts to avoid attacks where the attacker
repeatedly probes the implementation to see how it responds to various types
of error.  Note that if DTLS is run over UDP, then any implementation which
does this will be extremely susceptible to DoS attacks because UDP forgery
is so easy.

Note that because invalid records are rejected at a layer lower than
the handshake state machine, they do not affect pending

> retransmission timers.

Author: I saw the first batch of suggestions and thought, "oh, typos, no problem".  But this is a complete rewrite.  Hard to comment on a suggestion of this size.  Want to take this one over as a separate PR, Hannes?  Otherwise, this is hard to comment on.

The things that I think are bad about this (and the original; it was now more than 7 months since I opened this PR) are mostly that "SHOULD NOT".  I think that's bad advice now.  What you want is robustness at the DTLS layer such that things are discarded always, unless the AEAD says that they are OK.  What SCTP AUTH might give is better reliability for the handshake.

Reviewer: I might have gone a bit overboard with my proposed text changes. I want your PR to get merged because it contains a lot of improvements.

### Handling Invalid Records

Unlike TLS, DTLS can be resilient when receiving records that cannot be
processed at the record layer.

An endpoint MUST discard a record, without updating handshake state, ACK state,
retransmission state, or replay windows, when the record cannot be processed at
the record layer.  This includes:

* Records with invalid header values.  For instance, records with
  invalid values for fields other than `fragment` in `DTLSPlaintext` or
  `DTLSCiphertext`; see {{dtls-record}}.

* Records whose length is inconsistent with the remaining datagram contents. For
  instance, where the length indicates a length longer than what remains in
  a UDP datagram.

* Records with an epoch that is not currently being accepted.

* Records where AEAD protection cannot be removed
  successfully.

* Records with an invalid inner content type or invalid; and
  padding; see `DTLSInnerPlaintext` in {{dtls-record}}.

* Records that cannot be demultiplexed as DTLS records.

> Records that are successfully decoded and decrypted can be assumed to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Records that are successfully decoded and deprotected can be assumed to be
```

valid and errors in the contents of records MUST be regarded as originating
from the peer.  Fatal alerts can be generated based on the content of
records.  This includes all the unprotected records exchanged as part of the
handshake.

Note that this means that DTLS does not safeguard against denial of service
caused by damage to handshake messages carried in unprotected records.

In general, invalid records SHOULD be silently discarded, thus preserving
the association; however, an error MAY be logged for diagnostic purposes.

Generating fatal alerts is NOT RECOMMENDED for unreliable transports, both to
increase the reliability of DTLS service and to avoid the risk of spoofing

> attacks sending traffic to unrelated third parties.

Reviewer 2: I think we can actually remove this paragraph because all TLS 1.3 alerts are fatal.

> attacks sending traffic to unrelated third parties.

Author: ```suggestion
```

If DTLS is being carried over a transport that is resistant to
forgery (e.g., SCTP with SCTP-AUTH {{RFC6083}}), then it is safer to send alerts
because an attacker will have difficulty forging a datagram that will
not be rejected by the transport layer.

Implementations which choose to generate an alert in response to an invalid
record MUST generate fatal alerts to avoid attacks where the attacker
repeatedly probes the implementation to see how it responds to various types
of error.  Note that if DTLS is run over UDP, then any implementation which
does this will be extremely susceptible to DoS attacks because UDP forgery

> is so easy.

Reviewer 2: I think we can actually remove this paragraph because all TLS 1.3 alerts are fatal.

Author: Is it worth saying something like this (perhaps above)?

> Any implementation that treats deprotection [this is not a word dammit] failures as fatal will be highly susceptible to DoS, because UDP forgery is so easy.
